---
title: drop-out
date: '2023-06-23'
slug: 'drop-out'
---

It has been a year since I left school. I have to decide whether to continue my school work or drop out. That’s a hard choice. However, after talking with my classmates, it’s clear that it’s better to drop out. The reasons are as follows:

On the one hand, I deeply felt that the value of a master’s degree from a common university is vastly distinct from a famous university in my past one-year work experience. Many enterprises set the college’s title as the first criterion so you have already been excluded from the enterprise when sending your resume even if there is nothing different between you and others from prestigious universities in capabilities. Another benefit of college titles is that you can always easily pass the examinations from many small and medium-sized enterprises since the reality is many people indeed are unable to perform their work to the highest standard and distinguish the candidates’ abilities from each other.

On the other hand, my master tutor—an unaccomplished and oblivious woman whom I talked about in my previous blog—is now exacerbating the situation. In the first year of my master’s life, she fully showed her passion for formalism and ignorance of expertise. Her focus is on requiring us to write a daily report to detail our work—our work is mainly writing code so she let us paste every day’s code to the report but never checks the code’s potential issues—and gives us detailed instructions such as searching architecture on our own and next time discussion in group meeting every week. She has shown no signs of improvement even though one year has passed but is more enthusiastic about participating in some activities unrelated to scholarly research. No single independent article has been published since she came back to mainland China from the United States. The only article she published in two years is still from her tutor in America.

The past is a mirror of the future. My senior graduate scheduled this year can’t obtain his degree certification because of my tutor’s stymie. Article contribution is not allowed for my senior because she wants to add verification process but she made no effort to contact validation people though one year has passed. Given these circumstances, I do not believe that I will be able to graduate on time under her guidance.
