---
title: "Ukraine and the words that lead to mass murder(source: The Atlantic)"
author: 'The Atlantic'
date: '2022-04-26'
slug: '2022-04-26'
---

仅用于学习写作。





In the terrible winter of 1932-33, brigades of Communist Party activists went house to house in the Ukrainian countryside, looking for food. The brigades went from Moscow, Kyiv, and Kharkiv, as well as villages down the road. They dug up gardens, broke open walls, and used long rods to poke up chimneys, searching for hidden grain. They watched for smoke coming from chimneys, because that might mean a family had hidden flour and was baking bread. They led away farm animals and confiscated tomato seedlings. After they left, Ukrainian peasants, deprived of food, ate rats, frogs and boiled grass. They gnawed on tree bark and leather. Many resorted to cannibalism to stay alive. Some 4 million died of starvation.

At the time, the activists felt no guilt. Soviet propaganda had repeatedly told them that supposedly wealthy peasants, whom they called kulaks, were saboteurs, and enemies——rich, stubborn landowners who were preventing the Soviet proletariat from achieving the utopia that its leaders has promised. The kulaks should be swept away, crushed like parasites or flies. Their food should be given to the workers in the cities, who deserved it more than they did. Years later, Ukrainian-born Soviet defector Viktor Kravchenko wrote about what it was like to be part of one of those brigades. "To spare yourself mental agony you vein unpleasant truths from view by half-closing yours eyes and your mind," he explained. "you make panic excuses and shrug off knowledges with words like exaggeration and hysteria"

He also described how political dragon and euphemisms helped camouflage the reality of what they were doing. His team spoke of the "peasant front" and the "kulak menace", "village socialism" and "class resistance," to avoid giving humanity to the people whose food they were stealing. Lev Kopelev, another Soviet writer who as a young man had served  in an activist brigade in the countryside (later he spent years in the Gulag), had very similar reflections. He too had found that cliches and ideological language help him hide what he was doing, even from himself:

>I persuaded myself, explained to myself. I mustn't give in to debilitating pity. We were realizing historical necessity. We were performing revolutonary duty. We were obtaning grain for the socialist fatherland. For the five-year plan

There was no need to feel sympathy for the peasants. They did not deserve to exist. Their rural riches would soon be the property of all.

But the kukak were not rich; They were starving. The countryside was not rich; It was a wasteland. This is how Kravchenko described it in in his memories, written many years later:

> Large quantities of implements and machinery, which had once been cared for like so many jewels by thier private owners, now lay scattered under the open skies, dirty, rusting and out of repair. Emaciated  cows and horses, crusted with manure, wandered through the yard. Chickens, geese and ducks were digging in the flocks in the unthreshed grain.

The reality, a reality he had seen with his own eyes, wad strong enough to remain in his memory. But at the time he experienced it, he was able to convince himself of the opposite. Vasily Grossman, another Soviet writer, give thees words to a character in his novel *everything Flows*:

> I'm no longer under a spell, I can see now that kulaks were humman beings. But why was my heart so frozen at the time? When such terrible things were being done, when such sufferings was going on all around me?And the truth is that I truly didn't think of them as human beings. "They're not human beings, they're kulak trashes" —— That's what I heared again and again, that's what everyone kept repeating.

Nine decades have passed since those events took place . The Soviet Union no longer exists. The works of Kopelev, Kravchenko and Grossman have long been available to Russian reader who want them.

In the late 1980s, during the period of glasnost, their books and other accounts of Stalinist regime and Gulag camps were best sellers in Russia. Once, we assumed that the mere telling of  these stories would make it impossible for anyone to repeat it. But although the same book are theoretically still available, few people buy them. Memorial, the most important historical society in Russia , has been forced to close. Official museums and monuments to the victims  remain samll and obscure. Instead of declining, the Russia state`s ability to disguise reality from its citizens and to dehumanize its enemies has grown stronger and more powerful than ever.

All of this —— the indifference to violence, the amoral nonchalance about mass murder ——is familiar to anyone who knows Soviet history.

Nowadays, less violence is required to misinform the  public: There have been no mass arrests in Putin`s Russia  on the scale used in Stalin's Russia.

Perhaps there don't need to be, because Russia state-run television, the primary source of information for most Russians, is more entertaining, more sophisticated and more stylish than programs on the crackly radios of Stalin' era. Social media is far more addictive and absorbing the the badly printed newspapers of that era, too. Professional trolls and influencers can shape online conversations in ways that are helpful to Kremlin, and with far less effort than in the past. 

The modern Russia state also set the bar lower. Instead of offering its citizens a version of utopia, it wants them to be cynical and passive; Whether they actually believe what the state tell them is  irrelevant. Although the Soviet leaders lied, they tried to make their falsehood seem real. They get angry when anyone accused them of lying, and produced fake "evidence" and counterarguments. In Putin's Russia, politicians and televisions personalities play a different game, one that we in America know from political campaigns of Donald Trump. They lie constantly, blatantly, obviously. But if you accuse them of lying, they don't bother to offer counterarguments. When Malaysia Airline MH17 was shot down over Ukraine in 2014, the Russian government reacted not only with  a denial, but with multiple stories, plausible and implausible: The Ukraine army was responsible, or the CIA was, or it was a nefarious plot in which 298 dead people was placed on a plane in order to fake a crash and discredit Russia. The constant stream of falsehoods produces not outrages, but apathy. Given so many explantions, how can you know whether anything is ever true? What if nothing is ever true.

Instead of prompting a Commmunist paradise, modern Russia propaganda has for the past decade focused on enemies. Russians are told very little about what happens in their own towns or cities. As a result, they arn't forced, as Soviet citizens once were, to confront the gap between reality and fiction. Instead, they are told constantly about places what they don't know and have mostly never seen: America, France, Britain, Poland——places with degeneracy, hypocrisy, and "Russophobia." A study of Russia television found that negative news about Europe appeared on three main Russia channels, all state-controlled, an average of 18 times of a day. Some of the stories are invented(*the German government is forcibly taking children away from straight families and giving them to gay couples), but even true stories were picked to support the ideas that daily life in Europe is frightening and chaotic, Europeans are weak and immoral, the European Union is aggressive and interventionist. 


If anything, the portrayal of America has been worse. U.S. citizens who  rarely think about Russia would be stunned to learn how much time Russian state television devotes to the American people, American politics, even American culture wars. In March, the Russia president, Vladimir Putin, displayed an alarmingly intimate acquaintance with Twitter arguments about J.K. Rowling and her views on transgender rights at a press conference. It's hard to imagine any American politician, or indeed almost any American, talking about a popular Russian political controversy with the same fluency. But that's because no American politicians lives and breathes the ups and downs of Russian partisan arguments in the same way that the Russian president lives and breathes the battles that take place on American cable networks and on social media——battles in which his professional trolls and proxies compete and take sides, promoting whatever they think will be divisive and polarizing.

Within the ever-changing drama of anger and fear that unfolds every night on the Russian evening news, Ukraine has long played a special role. In Russian propaganda, Ukraine is a fake country, one without history or legitimacy, a place that is, in the words of Putin himself, nothing more than the "southwest" of Russian, an inalienable part of Russian's "history, culture and spiritual space." Worse, Putin says, this fake state has been weaponized by degenerate, dying Western power into a hostile "anti-Russia." The Russian president has described the Ukraine as "fully controlled by outside" and as "a colony with a puppet regime." He invaded Ukraine, he has said, in order to defend Russia "from those who has taken Ukraine hostage and are trying to use it against our country and people."

In truth, Putin invaded Ukraine in order to turn it into a colony with a puppet regime himself, because he cannot conceive of it ever being anything else. His KGB-influenced imagination does not allow the possibility of authentic politics, grassroots movement, even public opinion. In Putin's language, and in the language of most Russian television commentators, Ukrainians have no agency. They can't make choices for themselves. They can't elect a government themselves. They aren't even human ——they are "Nazis." And so, like the Kulaks before them, they can be eliminated with no remorse.

The relationship between genocidal language and genocidal behavior is not automatic, or even predictable. Human beings can insult one another, demean one another, and verbally abuse one another without trying to kill one another. But while not every use of genocidal hate speech leads to a genocide, all genocides have been proceeds by genocidal hate speech. The modern Russian propaganda state turned to be an ideal vehicle both for carrying out mass murder and for hiding it from the public. The gray apparatchiks, FSB operatives and well-coiffed anchorwomen who orgnaize and conduct the national conversation had for years been preparing their compatriots to feel no pity for Ukraine.

They succeeded. From the first days of the war, it was evident that the Russia military had planned in advance for many civilians, perhaps millions, to be killed, wounded, or displaced from their homes in Ukraine. Other assaults on cities throughout history——Dresden, Coventry, Hiroshima, Nagasaki——took places only after years of terrible conflict. By contrast, systematic bombardment into civilians in Ukraine began only days into an unprovoked invasion. In the first week of the war, Russia missiles and artillery targeted apartment block, hospitals, and schools. As Russia occupied Ukrainian cities and towns, they kidnapped or murdered mayors, local councilors, even a museum  director from Melitopol, spraying bullets and terror randomly on everyone else. When the Ukrainian military recaptured Bucha, to the north of Kyiv, it found corpses with their arms tied behind their backs, lying in the road. When I was there in mid-April, I saw others that had been dumped into a mass grave. In the first three weeks of war along, Human Rights Watch documented cases of summary execution, rape, and the mass looting of civilian property.

Mariupol, a mostly Russian-speaking city the size of Miami, was subjected to almost total devastation. In a powerful interview in late March, the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, noted that in the previous conflict, occupiers hadn't destroy everything, because they themselves need somewhere to cook, eat, wash;during the Nazi occupation, he said, "movie theater was operating in France." But Mariupol is different: "Everything is burned out." Ninety percent of the buildings were destroyed within just a few weeks. A massive steelworks that many assumed conquering army wanted to control was totally flattened. At the height of the fighting, civilians were stilled trapped inside the city, with no access to food, water, power, heat, or medicine. Men, women, and children died of starvation and dehydration. Those who tried escape were fired upon. Outsiders who want to bring in suppliers were fired upon as well. The bodies of the dead, both Ukrainian civilians and Russian soldiers, lay in street, unburied, for many days.

Yet even as these crimes were carried out, in full view of the world, the Russian state successfully hid the tragedy from its own people. As in the past, the use of jargon helped. This was not an invasion; it was a "special military operation." This was not a mass murder of Ukrainians; it was "protection" from the inhabitants of the eastern-Ukrainians territories; it was defense against "genocide perpetrated by the Kyiv regime."The dehumanization of the Ukrainians was completed in early April, when *RIA Novosti*, a state-run website, published an article arguing that the"deNazification" of Ukraine would require the "liquidation" of the Ukraine, and even the erasure of the very name of Ukraine, because to be Ukrainian was to be a Nazi: "Ukrainianism is an artificial  anti-Russian construct, which does not have any civilization content of its own, and is a subordinate element of a foreign and alien civilization." The existential threat was made clear on the eve of the war, when Putin reprised a decade's worth of propaganda about the perfidious Wset, using language familiar to Russians: "They sought to destroy our traditional values and forced us on thier false values that would erode us, our people from within, the attitudes that they have been aggressively imposing on other countries, attitudes that are directly leading to degradation and degeneration, because they are contrary to human nature. "

For anyone who have accidentally seen photographs of Mariupol, explanations were provided. On March 23, Russian television did broadcast film of the ruined city——drone footage, possibly stolen from Ukrainians. But rather than take responsibilities, they blamed Ukrainians. One television anchorwoman, sounding sad, described the scene as "a horrifying picture. [Ukrainian] nationalists, as they retreat, are trying to leave no stone unturned." The Russian Defense Ministry actually accused the Azov battalion, a famous radical Ukrainian fighting force, of blowing up the Mariupol theater, where hundreds of families with children had been sheltering. Why would über-patriotic Ukrainian forces deliberately kill Ukrainian children? That wasn't explained——then, nothing is ever explained. And if nothing can be explained for certain, then no one can be blamed. Maybe Ukrainian "nationalists" destroyed Mariupol. Maybe not. No clear conclusion can be drawn, and no one can be held accountable.

Few feel remorse. Published recordings of telephone calls between soldiers and their families——they are using  ordinary SIM cards, so it's easy  to listen to them——are full of contempt for Ukrainians. "I shot the car," one soldier tells a woman, perhaps his wife or sister, in one of the  calls."Shoot the motherfuckers," she responds, "as long as it's not you. Fuck them. Fucking the drug addicts and Nazis." They talk about stealing television set, drinking cognac, and shooting people in forests. They show no concern about casualties, not even their own. Radio communications between Russian soldiers attacking civilians in Bucha were just as cold-blooded. Zelensky himself was horrified by the nonchalance with which Russians proposed to send trash bags for the Ukrainians to wrap the corpses of their soldiers: "Even when a dog or cat dies, people don't do this," he told journalists

All of this——the indifference to violence, the amoral nonchalance about mass murder, even the disdain for the lives of Russian soldiers——is familiar to anyone who know Soviet history(or German history, for that matter). But Russian citizens and soldiers either don't know that history or don't care about it. President told me in April that, like "alcoholics [who] don't admit that they are alcoholic," these Russians "are afraid to admit guilty." There was no reckoning after the Ukrainian famine, or the Gulag, or the Great Terror of 1937–38, no moment when the perpetrators expressed formal, institutional regret. Now we have the result. Aside from the Kravchenkos and Kopelevs, the liberal minority, most Russians have accepted the explanations the state handed them about the past and moved on. They’re not human beings; they’re kulak trash, they told themselves then. They’re not human beings; they’re Ukrainian Nazis, they tell themselves today.











































